>> Steve Kinney: My name's Steve and we
are going to spend some time talking about
Tailwind, ideally tailwind version 4, but
some of this applies to earlier versions.
We'll call out where some
of the differences are.
But yeah, Tailwind, which either a,
you've used Tailwind before and
you're like, I know what that is,
or you haven't.
So we can start with that question,
which will only open up another question.
So what is Tailwind?
Well, Tailwind, thank you for asking,
is a utility first CSS framework,
which then obviously
begs the next question.
What, Steve,
is a utility first CSS framework?
That is an answerable question.
Which is just a different approach
to the way we do classes in css.
Maybe more traditionally,
you would see stuff like, okay,
we're going to have a class for
a button and maybe a button hover state.
And we'll apply those classes with
utility based or utility first css.
The ideas are classes are kind of
the things that we are doing to that
particular component.
So you can kind of, even if you've
never seen any Tailwind before,
you can kind of begin to
figure out what's going on and
what the styles of this button
are based on the names of the classes.
So to no one's surprise, even though we
cannot see this button on this slide,
we can imagine in our mind's eye that
it probably has a blue background.
The text is most likely white.
It might even have
a horizontal padding of three.
We'll talk about what
three is in a moment.
And a vertical padding of two right X and
Y axes there.
And we stack these together.
What Tailwind does is it then looks at
all of your various CSS classes and
figures out which ones actually got used,
and then tries to put
together the most concise version
of a CSS style sheet possible.
Your first reaction would be like,
yeah, I'm into that.
That makes sense.
Or a piece of you is philosophically or
intellectually horrified.
I am not here to defend or whatever.
I'm just here to explain.
But we'll go into some of the.
I'll teach the controversy.
How about that?
The advantages are one that
as you are prototyping,
one would argue the JSX argument, which
is you can do the kind of interactivity,
the markup, and
the styling all in one place.
There's also the fact that when
you are using these single
purpose utility classes,
the nuances of the cascade and
cascading style sheets tends
to be less of an issue.
But I think more importantly,
kind of is these, you know,
the fact of the matter is like if
you have a whole bunch of stuff,
if maybe the kind of normal like
padding for the general look and
feel of your UI is like a padding of one
remote or 16 pixels or what have you,
you could argue that putting that
on every single card section,
whatever component, those lines add up
because you can't really minify that.
Every time you want to say the background
color is a certain hex value of blue,
those properties stack up and there's
not really a great way to minimize it.
Prior to CSS variables we could have also
argued there's not really a great way to
change it across the entire code base
without something like Sass or less or
what have you.
But I think generally speaking for
the purposes of generating a very
concise and performance style sheet,
having very small single purpose classes
that you can stack up is somewhat useful.
There are some criticisms at the same
time, which is as we will see,
even putting together some of my notes and
having code blocks on the website,
just seeing exactly that running to
the first time, line length issues
that broke the layout of my own site
that I had to go fix before this course,
that is a button that had no hover
states and very little styling.
The number of classes
tend to add up over time.
A lot of the techniques for
maybe trying to limit that kind of are
basically antipatterns in a lot of cases.
So that is a criticism.
You do need to learn these new classes.
On top of just knowing regular css
there are some tools that help.
And again these utility classes
are basically trying to express
the style like that PX2 is effectively
just padding on the X axis and
that's not saying what that button is or
does in the same way that we
might think about with semantic markup,
so on and so forth.
The one thing I will also add in is
that there is effectively a presumption
when using Tailwick that you are using
some kind of component system.
Because if you are going to go through
every HTML button in your website and
try to put all those classes on it,
you will slowly go insane, right?
All the multi cursor work in the world
is not going to save you at that point.
The worst sins that I have ever committed
on a code base is getting a little
egregious with find and replace.
I've dug myself.
That's just git reset hard is how you
dig yourself out of that one, but
trust me how I know.
So there is an assumption that you're
using some kind of component framework.
Now that could be anything that could
be React, that could be Backbone,
that could be jQuery mounting
the DOM nodes onto the page.
Something where you can take the idea of
a button and apply that multiple places.
So then if you change
the definition of a button,
you change all the buttons on the site.
And so
we are gonna kind of do a little mix.
At some point,
we'll just be in a playground, and
we're just gonna do regular HTML because
getting distracted with a framework and
all that kind of stuff
is not super helpful.
We do have a storybook set
up with some svelte code.
You do not need to know svelte.
It was just what gets the most
of the framework out of the way.
So we can look at Tailwind.
So there's maybe one line for
props and that's about it.
Otherwise it should look like HTML.
But there is some assumption, as I said,
that you are using some
kind of component system.
That said, whether it's web components or
React or Angular,
you probably are, unless this is a one
page site or something along those lines.
Even if you are using Ruby on
Rails to server generate the page
with reusable pieces of markup,
all of that is fine.
Tailwind is agnostic of
any kind of framework.
It is effectively just css.
And that was kind of true
in previous versions, but
is very true at this point where all
your Tailwind configuration is css.
It's all CSS variables,
CSS the whole way down.
So can I use Tailwind with X?
The answer is, can you use CSS with X?
If so, then yes.
Again, so why it works is if you
get that predictable cascade,
because again,
the way that the classes stack up.
There is also the fact that since
you are defining most of these
shared things with CSS variables,
there is very easy to
map the design tokens that your
designer is using in Figma or
what have you with how that
manifests itself in the markup.
Then Tailwind uses this tool called Oxide,
which is just their own internal tool
built in Rust, to kind of then rip
through your entire markup and
figure out what classes do they use,
what classes do they not use, and
make the most concise version
of a style sheet possible.
Installation.
The answer is it depends, because you
do need some kind of build tooling.
That's not totally true,
but let's work with it.
You do need some kind of build tooling
to then rip through said components and
put everything together.
Otherwise you will get one giant
style sheet, which I guess works,
but depending on what you're using,
if you're using Vite, this is about it.
It's not that much different for webpack.
You can also use it with Post css.
Again, it's just a plugin for
any of these, whether it's postcss,
webpack, Vite, so on and so forth.
I'll show you.
We're using Vite for most of the projects
and examples in this course.
So this is literally from
my own configuration.
As you can see, not a lot going on as
Vite pulls in all the different files and
processes them.
They go in through oxide.
Oxide goes.
Okay, they did use
background color blue 600.
Add that one to the list check.
They did use a padding of four,
which is one REM and cool,
add that to the style sheet.
They didn't use Fuchsia 200.
Rip it out of the style sheet, so that
gives you a way to kind of power that.
Otherwise you pull in literally
everything, which is fine,
just suboptimal.
And then to kind of load
it into a style sheet.
That is, once you have partially
hooked up to your build tooling and
then to add it to your CSS in your.
Whatever the root CSS file is,
you're going to add that
line in there right there.
Now this is also build tooling helps
here too, because Vite, or Webpack, or
what have you will then like go to Node
modules, find Tailwind CSS, find the CSS.
There's some normal magic that most of our
build tooling has at this point will work.
There is a CDN version you can put
there that actually will like look at
the page as it mounts and
kind of do something very similar.
So you don't necessarily need to
use any of this build tooling.
You can just drop in.
At one point, we'll look at Tailwind Play,
which is their little like codepen ish
playground is effectively what that is.
So you don't even need to
do any of this tooling.
You could just add one script tag.
But generally speaking, if you are using
some kind of like component system,
there's probably some tool somewhere
that you're using for something, right?
But it is mostly agnostic of any
kind of tooling you happen to use,
as long as CSS is somehow
involved along the way.